The President: Hi, everybody.
At a moment when our
economy is growing,
our businesses are creating
jobs at the fastest pace
since the 1990s, and wages
are starting to rise
again, we have to make some
choices about the kind
of country we want to be.
Will we accept an
economy where only
a few of us do
spectacularly well?
Or will we build an
economy where everyone
who works hard has a
chance to get ahead?
That was the focus of my
State of the Union Address -
middle-class economics.
The idea that this country
does best when everyone gets
their fair shot, everyone
does their fair share,
and everyone plays by
the same set of rules.
This week, I will send a
budget to Congress that's
built on those values.
We'll help working families'
paychecks go farther
by treating things like
paid leave and child care
like the economic
priorities that they are.
We'll offer Americans
of every age the chance
to upgrade their skills so
they can earn higher wages,
with plans like making two
years of community college
free for every
responsible student.
And we'll keep building the
world's most attractive economy
for high-wage jobs, with new
investments in research,
infrastructure, manufacturing,
and expanded access to faster
internet and new markets.
We can afford to make
these investments.
Since I took office, we've
cut our deficits by about
two-thirds - the fastest
sustained deficit reduction
since just after the
end of World War II.
We just have to be smarter
about how we pay for
our priorities, and that's
what my budget does.
It proposes getting rid of
special interest loopholes
in our tax code, and using
those savings to cut taxes
for middle-class families
and reward businesses that
invest in America.
It refuses to play politics
with our homeland security,
and funds our national security
priorities at home and abroad.
And it undoes the arbitrary,
across-the-board budget cuts
known as "the sequester"
for our domestic priorities,
and matches those investments
dollar-for-dollar
in resources our troops need
to get the job done.
Now, I know that there
are Republicans
in Congress who disagree
with my approach.
Like I said in my
State of the Union,
if they have ideas that will
help middle-class families
feel some economic security,
I'm all in to work with them.
But I will keep doing
everything I can to help more
working families make
ends meet and get ahead.
Not just because we want
everyone to share in America's
success - but because we
want everyone to contribute
to America's success.
That's the way the
middle class thrived
in the last century
- and that's how
it will thrive again.
Thanks, everybody and
have a great weekend.